## Arithmetic Unit Design in Structural VHDL  

Project Overview  
This project implements an advanced Arithmetic Unit capable of performing the following calculation:  

P = (A * B) / (2^C) + D  

- **A**, **B**, **C**, and **D** are 8-bit unsigned inputs.  
- **P** is a 16-bit unsigned output.  

The design includes:  
- Internal registers for input and output storage.  
- A status signal to indicate when the calculation is complete.  
- An active-low reset to reset all registers and outputs to 0.  
- Support for variable exponentiation (`2^C`) for dynamic division operations.  

This project has been developed using **structural VHDL**, with a focus on modularity, synthesis, and simulation, while implementing all additional requirements.  

---

Features  

1. **Structural VHDL Design**: Modular and clear architecture for synthesis and simulation.  
2. **Full Requirement Implementation**: Implements the extended formula:  
   P = (A * B) / (2^C) + D  
   where C allows dynamic exponentiation for division.  
3. **Multiplier Choice**: Utilized an efficient multiplier (e.g., Array or Booth) with justified selection.  
4. **Comprehensive Testbench**: Validates functionality and edge cases, covering a wide range of inputs.  
5. **Generic Design**: Extensible to support varying input sizes.  
6. **Serial I/O**: Reduces I/O count with added control signals.  
7. **Optimized Performance**: Balanced FPGA resource utilization and speed.  
8. **Signed Arithmetic (Future Support)**: Modular design allows easy enhancement for signed input handling.  


Performance Metrics  

- Dynamic Division**: Handles variable exponentiation (`2^C`) efficiently.  
- Resource Utilization**: Optimized for minimal FPGA resource usage while meeting high-speed requirements.  
- Extensibility**: Modular design allows future enhancements and scalability.  

